I'd like to welcome our
new sponsor. Couchbase Couchbase is
an open source, no SQL
document and key value store
database requires no external cash
support SQL and analytical queries
for Jason data Couchbase supports
technologies like Kubernetes, java.net, JavaScript,
go and Python. Download it,
give it a try at
couchbase.com/hansel minutes. That's couchbased.com/hansel minutes.
And I'll remind you that
when you support our sponsors,
you support this show. Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with Courtney Nash, holloway.com.
How are you, Scott? How
are you? Very well. I
am working remotely, certainly, but
I've been doing that for
13 years, but somehow the
current situation as we record
this in March of 2020,
I just feel somehow more
remote. I feel farther away
from people than usual. I
think we all feel, I
think it's a weird mix
for me. I feel I've
been working remotely myself for
over about 11 years now,
and I feel more remote
in some ways and almost
weirdly more connected or maybe
just attached to my phone.
Twitter. Maybe it's not the
same thing I suppose, but
more people are caring about
and interested in how everyone's
going to handle this. And
so I feel less alone
being a remote worker than
I did before. So it's,
it's a weird mix for
me. I'd have to say,
I'm hoping that the, the
empathy of the remote experience
increases. And then when everyone
goes back, it won't be,
they won't forget. You know,
because we are w I
I've said this before, and
I think I say it
with love and people who
are differently abled will understand
the metaphor, but when you
are remote or the only
remote in a entirely, let's
all go to the office
and sit together team, you
are differently abled, and they
can leave the room and
you'll be like, Hey, anybody
you go, Oh, I guess
you all left. And they
just leave you there. You
can't move. They can't see,
you can't see them if
they don't turn their cameras
on. So you can't see
if they're rolling their eyes
at you. You lose a
lot. Maybe now they will
appreciate us. I certainly hope
so. I've, I've always worked
at hybrid remote kinds of
organizations. I've never been the
sole remote person though, but
I, I have a great
deal of empathy for how
much harder. That must be
more so than even at
least, if you have a
band of other remote people
and hopefully, maybe a company
that is aware of what
that separation is like, then
it's a bit better. But
yeah, the, the, I think
there's no there's far fewer,
still remote people out there
anymore after what's happened recently.
And I agree that empathy,
I don't think it's something
people forget after this, especially
I, the thing I want
to point out though, is
this is not normal remote.
I saw someone say someone
wrote something the other day
that was folks were not
working from home. This isn't
w you know, FH, this
is w DP it's working
during a pandemic. Yeah, it
is definitely not the same
you're being forced to and
having, you know, and choosing
to are very, very different
things. Yeah. But I think
that the benefit of all
of this, as we said,
is that empathy will be
increased. People will start checking
on each other and then
normalizing little kids wandering in
a meeting sometimes. And also
appreciating that while sometimes I
felt in the past, people
look at me working remotely,
Oh man, you got a
sweet deal. I answer when,
I mean, you pick kids
up at school, you do
this, you can do that.
And it's like, well, yeah,
that is part of it.
But then I also have
that, maybe you've had this
feeling, this remote worker, low
self esteem where it's like,
they can't see me. So
they don't really know that
I'm doing anything. So I'll
work extra hard to make
sure that I produce. And
I ended up working more
at night and more hours
than I did when I
was in the office. There's
and there's data on that
out there. There's research on
that. You know, there's a
lot of anecdotal information. There's
a lot of surveys of
companies, you know, by companies
who are remote and, and
a lot of them have
people report that phenomenon. But
my favorite example of this
is as I was working
on researching this, the guide
to remote work that we
put out, there's too often
cited studies that talk about
the increased productivity of remote
workers that are the closest
thing to actual controlled study,
not just surveys or, you
know, sort of self reported,
anecdotal measures. One is a
Chinese travel agency that sends
half their workforce home to
do book travel bookings. And
another one is the us
patent office. And so it's
patent officers who, again, same
thing. They sort of did
a controlled study of patent
officers working from home and
approving patents and folks doing
that in the office. And
both of them reported in
some cases sort of magical,
you know, productivity numbers, 20%
more productivity from the folks
at home. But the bit
that got me when I
really dug in and read
the Chinese travel agency study
is the quote unquote productivity
numbers was just that they
were actually spending almost an
entire day more working collectively
aggregated over the week. They
weren't getting more done in
the same amount of time.
They were just working more
cause they Right. And that's
the trick. So when I
went 13 years ago to
work remotely, I thought, Oh,
you know, I'm going to,
I'm going to go home.
I'm going to work maybe
what, 30 hours, and then
hang out. And that's not
what happens. You don't, you
could do that, but you
always seem to find yourself
working differently like that. And,
and I end up being,
I feel more productive because
people aren't wandering into my
office. I'm not getting interrupted
or I'm getting interrupted differently.
And there's, there's, I, I
missed the chatter. I missed
the, the water cooler. And
I think that that re
know that adds me a
half an hour, an hour
a day. And then I
think another bad thing about
remote workers at home is
we tend not to, you
know, we eat lunch at
our desks a lot. There's
not a lot of out
for lunch with the team,
which can burn 90 minutes
Of the sort of care
things that are built into
an in person, environment. You
know, so much of remote
work is intense. It has
to become so much more
intentional, not just how do
you communicate with people or
how do you write things
down or when, and how
do you meet? But you
have to be intentional then
about all this. You know,
once I saw something, somebody
was mentioning where, you know,
people are now doing something
that staffs were doing for
them. If they went into
an office, right office managers
and, you know, heads of
people or culture, people, or
folks who made sure they're
always snacks or whatever in
your office, you're now the
COO of your home office.
And if you're not thinking
about what your quote unquote
employee health is like, then,
well, no one else is
doing it. And I had
to get very intentional about
that myself as well. And
I mean, I finally ended
up getting onto a really
specific gym schedule that worked
with me and my family,
but I would also make
sure that I would always
carve out time to sit
at my table and eat
lunch and not do any
work, take the dog for
a walk. And I would
have to, I put these
things on my calendar. I
mean, I scheduled a man
and my whole team can
see what I'm doing. And
I think that that self
care aspect is something that's
even more important right now.
And even harder to do
in this environment. You can
go to the gym. Some
people can't even go outside.
And so I think those
challenges are really exacerbated right
now. So you work for
Holloway, it's H O L
L O w a Y.
And this is a company
that publishes comprehensive guides, right?
It's a world out there
where everybody can take their
blog and I could take
my blog and I could
throw it into a remote
guide for, you know, whatever
I can make a PDF
and a couple of days.
And that would be Scott's
guide to remote work. But
Holloway is not that I
am looking right now@thehollowayguidetoremoteworkthatyoucanpickupatholloway.com. You've
got a huge amount of
reviewers contributors, contributing authors. This
looks, this is not a
blog. There's not a medium
post. This is a 300
page research book with editorial
and a, an appendix. It
almost feels somewhere like close
to the level of effort
that gets put into a,
a Forester report. This is
you put some work into
this. I was in links.
It did. I think the
challenge right now about talking
to people about this guide
is people in our, like,
yeah. Okay, I got it.
You got a guide to
remote work. That's great. I
mean, it's the environment it's
in the tech universe at
least, and is saturated with
discussions and material about remote
work. But we started on
this last fall. So we
had published some other guides
in, you know, sort of
adjacent areas around startups and
high growth companies, things around
venture capital or hiring and
scaling software teams. And I
had had this, I'd had,
we had lots of topics
we want to work on.
And I basically said, we
should do this last, like
September, October, full gut instinct
kind of decisions. And, and
so, yeah, we've, we've, these
things take a huge amount
of time and effort to
do. And when we started
on this, of course, we
had no idea what was
going to happen now, but
the goal with these guides
that we produce ourselves versus
other things, we are starting
to publish other people on
our platform, but we started
with our own work. It's
kind of like a reverse
Netflix. Like we did the
fancy high end stuff first,
and then we're gonna open
it up to everyone else.
But the premise of the
initial premise at Holloway was
so much, there's so much
knowledge in the world. And
so much of it as
sort of locked away and
the internet doesn't really help
you get to it. It's
either in books, which are
largely controlled by Amazon now,
like so many things, and
it's not easy to discover
and find things online and
anybody who's tried to Google
something, I mean, try to
Google coronavirus right now. There's
so much information online and
it's so hard to Wade
through and figure out and
find what's valuable and what's
helpful. And so we thought,
well, why don't we just
start building those things? And
so the intention is to
be very rigorous and to
be as helpful as possible.
And that means we don't
want to present one single
person or company's perspective, especially
for very complex kinds of
topics where there is, there
is no one answer and
there certainly is no one
way of doing things, but
there, there are a lot
of, like you said, sort
of individual perspectives out there.
And so we like to
pull those together with as
much research as we can
find. And then, yeah, a
lot of rigor around how
that material is presented and
evaluated and, and reviewed. I
have an academic background, quite
a few of us actually
at Holloway do and, and
a research background. So I
think it sort of comes
naturally to me, but there's
not a lot of, of,
of material like that out
there for these kinds of
topics. So hopefully the biggest
thing for us is to
be helpful. Like our art,
one of our biggest editorial
principles is to be helpful.
And I think having a
very well researched material is
one of the more helpful
things that we can do
for people. Is this a
guide that is a, like,
sit down one on one
remote work, one Oh one
for the remote worker, is
it for the, the C
level exec? Who's our audience
here that we're trying to
convince them? Or are we
trying to enable them Trying
to enable them? I can't
convince you. I can't convince
anyone. And, and I shouldn't,
you know, prior to what
just happened, I had a
whole spiel about how companies
need to really examine what
works for them, what works
for one company. And if
it's what stage it's at,
and what it's trying to
achieve is very different than,
you know, say like a
get lab who was one
of the more well known
all remote companies, but we've
lost that choice. Now everybody
is doing this. So our
goal was always to enable,
to give people information and
to tackle some of the
harder things. I think that
for me, what happened when
I started researching this was
there, wasn't a lot of
information about like the really
thorny, nitty gritty stuff. There's
plenty of things that are
about how, you know, how
to communicate asynchronous honestly, and
how to set up your
home office. But it's hard.
Like how do you hire
people internationally? What are the
tax laws like? What are
all the, you know, those
kinds of things. And so
we, we went into all
these deep pockets of the
topic that are largely or
less, so, you know, sort
of examined. So the audience
for this, one's pretty broad.
I think it's useful for
sort of C level folks
to get the landscape and
to kind of understand the
kinds of problems that line
managers and sort of departmental,
you know, managers and folks
are going to be dealing
with. And also, again, like
you said, to develop some
empathy for the individual workers
who are going to be
in these positions. And so
there's a lot in there
for managers, teams, and individuals
who are on those teams,
I'd say that's really the
core audience that we're looking
at. There's also, like I
said, there's some material in
there for folks who are
sort of HR, operational, you
know, like Holy cow, one
of the things that people
say about remote work is
you can hire someone from
anywhere, but that's actually not
entirely true. And it's really
hard once you start sort
of scaling internationally, Got maybe
20% of the Microsoft developer
division working remotely. And when
people hear that, they're like,
Oh, that's amazing. That's fantastic.
I'd love to work remotely
from country. Right. It's like,
eh, you know, like, do
I pay you in that?
Like, how do I pay?
Like even just the, how
do I pay you, But
how do I pay you
is, could be months of
work by the way. That's
a book right there. Yeah.
And, and, you know, pro
tip, it's not just PayPal
and I can't just go
and yeah, zoom some money
over to you. So that's
a challenge. Yeah. So we
went there, you know, so
like with those kinds of
things, but we do have
a bunch for people who
are individual, you know, workers
as well. So it's, it's
a pretty broad mix. I
think there's a lot more
for managers in there as
well. Then I've seen more
depth for managers. You know,
Katie Walmsley, one of the
lead authors is a veteran
engineering manager. She works for
buffer and she's been remote
for pretty much her whole
career. And the, you know,
the folks that she talked
to and the insights that
she had around managing remote
teams. There were things I
learned from her and I've
been doing this for a
while now. So I think,
especially the things that are
in there for managers are
really valuable. One of the
terms that I've used, sometimes
I'm not, I think I
made it up was organizational
willpower. And it's my it's
when I get frustrated with
a company and some, they
don't do something. And I
say, why doesn't remote work
here? It's like, well, organizational
willpower, I guess that's like
buy in, right? You need
somebody to actually care at
a higher level. You can't
build it. I mean, can
you do it from the
ground up Remote work? No.
Everybody tells you, you can
do things like DevOps and
whatnot from the ground up.
And anybody who's tried to
do, even that will tell
you how hard that is.
Remote work to succeed requires
buy in at the highest
levels of a company. And
it doesn't just require buy
in. It requires empathy and
modeling of those behaviors, The
modeling, the modeling. That's so
important. Yeah. Yeah. And there's,
you know, people talk about
culture. There's a reason you
see about remote work talks
about culture because well, first
of all, culture is important
for any company. And I
feel like what a remote
environment situation for a company
is, is it pushes at
all the hard spots of
running a business and having
people have to work together.
I feel like it finds
your weaknesses. It's like having
two year olds. So just
all to find all the
cracks, right. And then just
wedge it in there and
keep pushing. Yes. I mean,
if you don't, if you
don't spend time explicitly thinking
about your culture and whether
it is set up to
handle the kinds of challenges
that are remote a remote
workforce has, that's going to
be one of your biggest
challenges I believe firmly. And
if you don't have a
set of values that support
that, that are like very
clearly articulated and regularly reinforced,
then I think that's incredibly
critical for leadership for companies
who are doing this. No
one wants to manage databases.
If they can avoid it.
That's why Mongo DB made
Mongo DB Atlas, a global
cloud database service that runs
on AWS, GCP and Azure.
You can deploy a fully
managed Mongo DB database in
minutes with just a few
clicks or a few API
calls, Mongo DB, Atlas, automates
deployment, automates updates, handles scaling,
and more so that you
can focus on your application
instead of taking care of
your database, you can get
started free@mongodb.com slash Atlas. Now,
if you're already managing a
Mongo DB deployment, Atlas has
a live migration service. So
you can migrate it easily
with minimal downtime and then
get back to what matters.
Stop managing your database and
start using Mongo DB Atlas.
So are you saying that
if you have an unhealthy
org and then you decide
to move people remote, you're
just going to have a
nice, big remote, unhealthy org
You're to, yes. You will
have a nice day. It's
going to get worse is
what I'm going to say.
Yeah. Interesting. So one of
the things that we've been
dealing with is that, you
know, everyone was kicked out
of their offices, right? So
I've been doing my thing.
And then suddenly in a
day there was like, go
to the office, grab your
monitor, grab your mouse and
run. Right. And we're dealing
with a, a, not a
very level playing field. We've
got wifi people that people
never thought about what it
was like to be on
wifi at home for eight
hours, Or how about their
whole family on wifi at
home for eight hours, We
had a very nice young
person who was, had set
up a home office in
their, in their pantry. Yeah.
Cause it was the only
room space. Yeah. Someone else
had a laundry hamper, flipped
upside down and they were
at the end of the
hallway and they just made
the hallway, the space. Right.
All of these and not
everyone has the space or
the privilege to go and
make a spare bedroom. Like
I have a spare bedroom
and that's an office and
I filled it with toys.
You know, it's full of
Legos and crap. And the
kids come in here, grab
the Legos and they come
back out. But it looks
pretty cool. And I, I,
the most important part is
I have a door. Yeah.
So do I, I have
a dedicated office and we're
so privileged to, we built,
we bought this house because
I was working remote. My
husband works remote. And so
we were able to, well,
partly I'd part of the
thing about working remotely was
we moved someplace cheap and
then you could afford a
house. Not everybody has that.
I mean, you know, so
you have people who are
living in New York city in
San Francisco and they're jammed
in there and yeah, they
certainly don't have the luxury
of even a separate room
and children running everywhere. Trying
to do this in the,
in the kitchen. My wife
always says, when I, when
the door is closed, you
know, I'm not available. Yeah.
So when we originally started
working remotely, I tried to
express that I'm, I'm remote.
Like I'm, I'm away, like
consider the metaphor was I've
gone to work and that
metaphor doesn't really work. Cause
I am here and they
can hear me in here.
So what do I do?
Do I say, do I
give them access to my
calendar? Do I put a
light outside? And like right
now I have to like,
literally have a light outside.
That's like a smart light.
Right. So I just say,
you know, set the daddy
light to red and, and
that's working so far, but
I, my kids are 12.
I don't know if that
would work with a fighter.
My five year old would
be like red light and
not mom told me open
the door. You know, any
that's what's happened. I gave
up, I'm not going to
lie. I just stopped. I
was having so much stress.
I mean, and, and the
folks I work with are,
I mean, I'm the only
parent and they're working really
hard to support me, but,
you know, I just, I
was, I was so stressed
out cause I was like,
you know, the kids have
to stay out and I'm
wanting to dah, dah, dah.
And even though I knew
in the back of my
head, I'm always, I'm telling
people in the guide, like,
you know, like your kids
in that's okay, let people
see your life. And I
just thought, I was like,
well, I got, I they're
just coming in and out
now, even when it's my
husband and I are sort
of divvying up trying to
have like mornings with them
and afternoons, you know, each
of us taking half of
the day seems to be,
what's working for our structure
because I have an eight
and a five year old.
And five-year-old, can't self entertain
for more than, you know,
whatever 15 minutes. And when
I just sort of threw
up in the boundaries and
just started letting them in
my stress level, went down,
their stress level, went down,
my team, got to see
even more, really what I'm
dealing with. You know, I
had like one, the five-year-old
came in and interrupted a
conversation. I was having with
someone and he completely lost
his train of thought. And
I was like, yeah, imagine
that like 10 times a
day, buddy, This brings me
up to another topic, which
is, I think there's a
new flavor of professionalism, right?
Yeah. If you go back
to what I was saying,
I'm trying to create an
office professional, which I'm going
to recreate the office. Exactly.
And I'm hearing that that's
wrong. I think we shouldn't.
And the more people I
talk to, at least at
what seems like fairly healthy,
especially largely remote companies, that's
what I'm hearing. Just, they've
just it. And I think
that's a long road for
a lot of the rest
of America and the world
in some cases, depending on
how different cultures approach that.
But for me, it's been,
it's been very freeing and
it's, it turns out that
if I'm less stressed out
about it, they can come
in, get a hug and
they know they're going to
get the hug and they
can go and we're fine.
And then I'm not like
yelling at my children to
like get out of my
office, you know? And the
flip side is I have
a job that is normally
I need large chunks of
focus, time editorial work and
software development have a lot
of figs in common. And
one of them is that
you have to sit and
spend time constructing and thinking
or debugging and fixing. And
I don't have that right
now. And a lot of
the, the advice and our
guidance about how to do
deep work and how to
set up your calendar and
like, you know, because we
wrote it when we wrote
it. And now it's, now
I don't have any advice
in there about this, but
I think that's the biggest
challenge for people is, and
we're having to adjust our
work styles and how much
work we can do and
what kind of work we
can get done. And that's
a lot to communicate with,
you know, your teams or
your managers. And so there's,
that's the other big shift.
I think that's going on
aside from just trying to
work during a pandemic, a
lot of people are finding,
especially if you have family
around that and you don't
have, don't have a dedicated
space or whatever, like we
were just talking about, you
just can't necessarily plan to
sit and focus and think
and contemplate. And so we're
having to learn how to
work in very different ways.
But I think the new
professionalism is that we are
humans who are in this
unique situation together. And I
hope that breaks down some
of the cultural expectations we
have about the office that
are, in my opinion, just
really outdated. It seems like
for the, you know, I've
been working for, what is
it now? 30 years and
I've seen madman. So really
I've been working for 60
years. So I know that,
I know I've know how
people worked in the forties.
Right. That's exactly what it
was like, you know, but
it seems like finally for
the first time, and probably
only in tech, as you
said, the tech kind of
leads the leads, the cutting
edge here is we're recognizing
that people are humans and
they're not resources. And if
you're nice to them, they
will do better work than
if you're mean to them
and burn them out. And
now we need to take
that from privileged tech, West
coast, to East coast, to
middle America, to the world
and be nice to people
and let them prioritize And
treat them with respect. You
hired them. If they're like,
that's the thing. I think
I'm seeing a lot of
unfortunate things out there of,
you know, sort of examples
of, of horrible micromanagement and
expectations, which were bad enough
if it weren't working during
pandemic and with children at
home. But the, the office
is the office as a
hall monitor the office, a
built in presence indicator. And
a lot of managers have
always used that if they're
not the kind, if I'm
just gonna come out and
say it, if you're a
bad manager, then you're managing
by butts and seats and
trying to, you know, control
what people are doing daily.
And part of the nature
of remote work, that companies
that are really have been
doing this for awhile, it's
embracing is, is yes, hire
people, hire smart people, enable
them, give them clear goals
and then let them go
do their work. And you
don't have to micromanage them.
And you don't have to
know what they're doing every
moment of the day. Right.
See that acknowledgement that they're
grown. Like how do you
know that? How do you
know that they're at their
desk? They're grown, but what
if they, what if they're
at the mall? Well, then
I'll probably notice that their
productivity is down and they
won't work here anymore. Like
they are adult humans that
we hired for the job.
We hired them to do
the job. And so if
you didn't hire the right
people, I mean, come on,
that's that's on you. And
so that that's, I think
trust that trust is hard
and, and companies are gonna
start seeing how little trust
there is. And I think
it's easy to sit and
talk in the abstract about
that. It's very terrifying probably
to be someone who is
thrust into this. And you're
like, and I'm saying, sitting
here saying like, you need
a high trust environment. And
they're like, well, I don't,
I don't have one. And
I don't know about you,
but I don't have a
good answer for that right
now that you can just
be like, tell your management
team to go build some
trust. Like That's the thing.
And it's a constant up
and down. It's not bottom
up. It's not top down.
And it is modeling as
well. My like, if my
VP is offended, when my
son jumps in my lap
then, and feels that that's
unprofessional. But the, and, and
then that, that isn't reciprocated
that I'm going to feel
like, Oh, well, gosh, they're
not modeling that behavior. Therefore,
this is not good for
me. Like it has to
go multiple ways. Yeah. So
when I look at the
depth of this, it is
overwhelming. You have managing distributed
teams, being a successful remote
worker. These are the kinds
of things that we've seen
in other guides, but then
you go into legal tax,
operational concerns. You go deep
into working together around communication.
One of the things that
I was really impressed with
that I'd never even thought
about was handling urgent issues
across remote teams. The idea
of like, well, if I
can re I can just,
I'll just Slack them, right.
I'll just call them on
teams. Just like, Hey, you're
busy, you're busy. You actually
go through creating, what's called
an incident priority matrix, which
is the like flow chart,
the above me or not.
Yeah, You don't have to
have that. You have to
cause you can't see what
someone's doing. You don't necessarily
know what's going on. And
part of the premise of
why remote work is so
great is that we don't
have all of these other
distractions of in an office.
We don't have open office
plans and people tatting and
dropping things and playing. I
mean, we have new distractions
at home, many of which
we've already just discussed, but
what's the point of being
able to, in theory, you
know, turn everything off, sit
and try to get your
work done. If somebody is
like, you know, Hey, Hey,
are you there on Slack?
Cause then now slacks the
new distraction technique, right. Or
teams or whatever. And so
you like everything else with
remote work, you have to
be explicit about how that
works. You have to talk
to your team about it.
What a thought, how do
we communicate? What is urgent?
If it's not urgent, when,
when should I expect you
to get back to me?
And then if it is
urgent, how, who, who does
what and how? And I
just had a conversation about
this with someone from my
team, because I got a
migraine last week and I
Slack the team like, Hey
guys, I got a migraine.
I don't feel great. Hey,
y'all actually, I'm trying not
to say guys, which is
like so frustrating when it
comes out and I gotta
go, I gotta go lay
down for a while and
chill out. And they're like,
okay, great. And then we
had a meeting on the
calendar later that day and
they were all like, is
Courtney coming or she not
coming? Or they didn't know.
And so in that case,
it was, I didn't make
it seem like quite as
serious it was. And what
I should've done was sort
of its folks and been
like, Hey, I'm, I'm gonna
go disappear for like three
hours because the Slack message
just disappeared, you know, to
people, some people saw it,
some people didn't, it wasn't
clear. And so that's like
a perfect case of like,
what's the escalation in that
case. And so now we're
going to have one for
that. You know, You teach
people how to treat you.
I've said this in my
productivity talks that like, if
you answer email at two
in the morning or on
a Sunday, you've taught everyone
that you do that. Right.
So if migraines are a
thing or my diabetes shuts
me out of a meeting
or two, because of whatever
reasons, then I need to
think about that flow chart
and make it as simple
as possible for both me
and data. No, like, do
we call the police text?
Scott's wife, he'll be there
late. Right? There's there's escalation
there. And that's a really
important thing. And that gets
back to the whole, we
are humans. So let's just
be conscious of everyone's situation.
Let's just be real. You
and I, before we got
on this podcast, I emailed
you. And I said, I'm
having some trouble with the
kids. It's chaos. Can I
be about five minutes late?
And you were like, Oh
my God, I was going
to text you the same
thing. Cause you were running
late as well. And, and
the show still happens and
it's still a great show.
We are. Yeah. So, but
thank you. I think I
had joked with one of
the, one of the lead
authors is Juan Pablo Vertica,
who you sorta Stripe. He
was working at Stripe while,
while he was still sort
of writing some of this
and then he moved on
from there. But he, he
had to write what email
is like. He had to
write a very big cause
that's kind of how we
do it. We don't presume
anything. Right. We try not
to presume any specific knowledge
on anyone's part. And so
if we're going to try
to explain what asynchronous communication
is, we're also gonna make
sure that everybody's on the
same page about what email
is. And so we, you
know, so we, yeah, we'd
go down to this level
of depth of like, here's
the really practical, like hands
on kinds of things that
you may not have ever
thought about. And like bringing
up email is a great
one. And modeling of those,
we have all this explosion
of tools we can use
now to work remotely, right?
We have Slack and teams
and zoom and Hangouts, and
I'm maintaining this database of,
of remote company tools. And
every day I find like
three more. It's, it's very
hard to keep up now
and imagine that right, as
you're either a manager or
you're an individual person, you're
like, how, how do I
even wrap my brain around
which one of these I
should use? And there's a
lot of talk about like
tools for remote work. And
we kind of reverse engineered
that and tried to start
from first principles, which is
how do you need to
communicate? What do you need
to communicate about? And how
does that differ across different
kinds of scenarios and then
sort of build up an
architecture of the ways you
communicate and things you used
to do that. And then
again, part of the sort
of communication or, you know,
protocol matrix, write it down
that way. Everybody knows it's
it's not, it's not unclear.
And yeah, so kudos to
the folks who are writing
this stuff too, because it's
not a way that you're
a lot of people are
used to writing. You kind
of write some stuff, you
know, and then you move
on. And I, we had
to spend a lot of
time going, wait, what do
we have? We have to
clarify that for people, we
have to be very explicit.
What that means. We can't
leave anything to be confusing
or unclear. So that's why
it takes a while to
do these things. Well, folks
can check out the Holloway
guide to remote work@holloway.com. That's
H O L L O
w a Y. It is
an extraordinary full-on book online
within a really amazing reader.
It's online in a really
interesting piece of software. This
is not just an infinite
scroll through 300 pages of
stuff. And you can go
and check out all the
links. There's almost a 900
links within it. Dozens of
contributing authors. And it is
very highly edited and really
extraordinary. And I appreciate that.
You all put it out
early during these unusual times.
Yeah, that was a, I
mean, we, like I said,
we started on this thing
and thank you and huge
praise to our sort of
product and engineering team who
have, have built. What I
think is a really like
delightful reading experience online. We
were conflicted about whether to
release it early, to put
it out, to promote it,
but people kept coming to
us and saying, you've got
to do this. Like this
thing's super valuable. It actually
is helpful. It goes well
below the surface. So I'm
continuing to fight my instincts
with, cause I don't want
people to feel like we're
trying to capitalize on a
crisis. No, I definitely don't.
There are businesses that are
capitalizing on a crisis, but
then there are ones that
are putting out useful information.
And I think that this
is useful information and that's
why I wanted to chat
with you. Well, thank you
very much. I'm so excited
to finally get to connect
with you. Alright. I've been
talking with Courtney Nash and
this has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again. Next time. .